Hello this is Curiel from Perrysburg dot com.
And welcome to the ninth tutorial on testing and optimization and meditate for Congratulations on completing
a theoretical section of the course.
And now we are moving onto the practical section.
And in this part of the course we will download and install an expert advisor will learn how to import
data into the terminal will conduct back tests and optimizations we'll do some forward tests we'll even
run a demo test which will be several weeks long.
So it's an exciting time ahead and I'm really happy that you're on board and very looking forward to
doing a session together.
But before we can proceed Of course we have to understand the expert advisors that will be working with
.
And I would like to introduce you to simple system version 5.0.
This particular algorithmic trading system was originally developed as part of another course that I'm
running which is called algorithmic trading for complete beginners it's a course on programming and
then kill for it's the green course in my series of courses and if you ever want to learn how to program
expert advises in them kill four for the mantra what platform.
I do highly encourage you to check it out.
It's very comprehensive and whether you're a beginner or you have some basic programming knowledge you
will learn from this course and by the end of it you'll be able to create your own for X robots just
like the one we will be using in our current course on testing and optimization.
So we'll be working with this simple system version 5.0.
So I've decided that the best way to introduce you to this expert advisor would be to actually show
you the video which demonstrates how I came up with the idea and how I explained it for the first time
in that course on programming in kill for I hope you'll enjoy it and I'll see you right away on the
other side.
I wanted to come up with a trading system that would program in these in the series of tutorials but
I didn't want it to be just a generic indicator based system or something that we would code just for
the sake of training and practicing and upping our power programming skills I wanted to actually make
it interesting by actually finding a pattern in the market and something that we can exploit and something
that will give our system a chance so that it can actually be profitable and it can bring us money in
the end and that way it'll be more interesting and more fun to create the code for the system.
So what I was doing I was looking at the British pound dollar chart and this is what I found.
I found that often the British pound will at the start of they will move in one direction and then around
nine o'clock maybe eight nine 10 11 o'clock it will actually jump in the opposite direction.
So as you can see here it's the red lines showing that the British pound was going down from the start
of the day from 0 0 to here it's 13 oclock and then jump back up here.
We can see the opposite happening.
The British pound dollar started at one point seven 8:59 went up to 1.7 136 and then a jump or tumbled
all the way back down.
And so this dependency can be observed quite often.
Sometimes you can observe it like for example here on the 16th of July 2014.
It's going flat pretty much now.
No big movements and the biggest span here is about 20 pips can to make a profit of that on British
pound dollar a one charge or one hour chart here.
What you can see is that is just going down just plain down and that's why there's no bounce back up
and that's why I put the x's here meaning that Conry tray.
If we trade we won't make a profit on these days if we try to trade this pattern that we've noticed
over here yesterday on the 18th of July 2014 what happened was it went up and then the British pound
dollar went up and around 10:00 and tumbled all the way down.
So that's that's the depends on notice and that's what we're going to put to try to put at the core
of our system and build a whole training strategy around then of course automated and the process all
right I hope you find that presentation is useful.
And now you know how this simple system expert advisor was created of course what was discussed in the
previous video is just the basic original version of the simple system.
Expert adviser since then there have been multiple modifications and adjustments to the code.
And I just wanted to mention that what you will be presented with in this course is simple system version
5.0 and it is a trading system which is not available anywhere else but this course.
So in a sense that's a proprietary algorithmic trading system which I'll be giving away to you.
And that's exactly what we will be working with further in this course in the rest of this video I wanted
to quickly talk about the improvements which have been made in simple system version 5.0.
So let's go ahead to the venture for trading platform and look at the expert there.
Now I have already installed to the expert advisor into my training terminal but don't worry I will
show you how this is done in the next tutorial for now we just needed because we would like to look
at the parameters.
So I'll bring up the input screen here and we'll just go through them one one by one start.
Our is essentially the hour when we're looking for the training Paran.
And there is something that was outlined in the demonstration video and here the default value is 9
o'clock in the morning.
Many people IMET is a new parameter which has been introduced in a simple system version five point
0 and it is actually a an improvement which was suggested by one of the students in the course on algorithmic
training for complete beginners and it works quite well and we will discuss this further down the track
in the course what it does essentially is it specifies what the minimum distance should be between the
open price of the day and the price of this hour for the expert adviser to be triggered and for it to
be able to create trades.
So if I say 10 pips then if the movement was less than 10 pips and orders won't be triggered.
So it's kind of an additional filter to take profit and Stop-Loss are pretty self-explanatory.
A lot is the law is a parameter which allows it to control the volume of your transactions as a period
and use a filter something we'll discuss now.
So I mean a period was introduced in Version 2.0 which was also developed in the algorithmic training
for beginners course.
However using my filters a switch which was not available then it's only available in version 5.0.
The best way to describe these two parameters is to have a look on the chart.
So what the MLA filter does is it actually allows us to control our transactions and have an additional
point of reference for when we actually want to trade and not if we put a 100 period moving average
onto this chart then you'll see that it just so happens that we are trading up when the price is below
the moving average.
If we go back here a bit and we see two cases when the price went up from the start of the day and then
tumbled down.
And if we look at the same moving average then in this case we were trading down when the price is above
the moving average.
So this is very counterintuitive because usually you would use the moving average as a trend indicator
and when the price is above the moving average that means that it's a bullish market and therefore should
trade by orders.
But in this case we're doing we're creating sell orders and same thing.
On the contrary when the price is below the moving average it's a bearish market and you should be creating
sell orders.
But what we are doing is growing by orders.
And when you think about it it isn't actually a paradox what essentially this means is that we are trading
retracement.
This means that the original movement which is outlined here in blue and here in red at the start of
the day is in line with the trend.
But what we're doing is we're trading in the opposite direction meaning we're catching these smaller
traces and that's perfectly fine and just means that our trading strategy is a counter-trend trading
strategy.
So that's all for today and all of this will make much more sense in the future when we are working
very closely with this expert advise further down the track in the course and I look forward to seeing
you on next.
Tural until then I've been training